# ML-Project-Defect-Prediction
Context: Infrastructure-as-code (IaC) is the DevOps strategy that allows management and provisioning of infrastructure through the definition of machine-readable files and automation around them, rather than physical hardware configuration or interactive configuration tools. On the one hand, although IaC represents an ever-increasing widely adopted practice nowadays, still little is known concerning how to best maintain, speedily evolve, and continuously improve the code behind the IaC strategy in a measurable fashion. On the other hand, source code measurements are often computed and analyzed to evaluate the different quality aspects of the software developed. In particular, Infrastructure-as-Code is simply "code", as such it is prone to defects as any other programming languages. This dataset targets the YAML-based Ansible language to devise defects prediction approaches for IaC based on Machine-learning.

The dataset contains metrics extracted from 86 open-source GitHub repositories based on the Ansible language that satisfied the following criteria: The repository has at least one push event to its master branch in the last six months; The repository has at least 2 releases; At least 11 of the files in the repository are IaC scripts; The repository has at least 2 core contributors; The repository has evidence of continuous integration practice, such as the presence of a .travis.yaml file; The repository has a comments ratio of at least 0.2; The repository has commit frequency of at least 2 per month on average; The repository has an issue frequency of at least 0.023 events per month on average; The repository has evidence of a license, such as the presence of a LICENSE.md file The repository has at least 190 source lines of code.

Metrics are grouped into three categories: IaC-oriented: metrics of structural properties derived from the source code of infrastructure scripts; Delta: metrics that capture the amount of change in a file between two successive releases, collected for each IaC-oriented metric; Process: metrics that capture aspects of the development process rather than aspects about the code itself.

Inspiration: What source code properties and properties about the development process are good predictors of defects in Infrastructure-as-Code scripts?

Acknowledgement: OpenML.org repository, Elif Ceren Gok.
